# 1-3 Script

## elaine-pester-1

After the start of 1-3, as Abelon heads north. Elaine comes up behind him.
```
-> Event: Elaine teleports and walks north

Elaine (serious): Sir Abelon?

A: Yes?

    -LABEL ELAINE_PESTERS-

        Elaine (serious): Sir Kath filled me in on your mission. There's a ruined monastery somewhere in the valley forest, and you have some sort of scroll for... uh...

        Elaine (serious): Anyway, I asked Sir Kath how I could make myself useful. He told me to talk to you.

        A: Deferring to me? He's shown some sense, for once (Abelon +1)

            Elaine (serious): Does he not normally?

        A: His idea of breaking the ice? (Elaine +1, Abelon -1)

            Elaine (content): I... heehee. I wouldn't have thought of it that way.

        A: Don't mistake him. He was dismissing you (Elaine -2, Abelon +1)

            Elaine (worried): I... Sir Kath doesn't seem like the type to... Sorry.

        -> Event: Pause a moment.

        Elaine (worried): ...

        Elaine (serious): Well, isn't there something I can do to help? I won't let myself be just some baggage you drag along with you.

        A: Certainly. You can stay out of our way (Elaine -1, Abelon +1)

            Elaine (worried): ...

        A: Not unless you can somehow guide us to the monastery

            Elaine (worried): I... I can't.

A: ...

    -GOTO ELAINE_PESTERS-
```

## elaine-pester-2

```
Elaine (serious): Don't you need to find your other two knights? Before going to the monastery?

A: Yes, since they're so interminably fond of slowing our progress

    Elaine (serious): But aren't they following your orders?

    A: If only. Things would be much simpler (Elaine +1)

        Elaine (content): You sound like my grandad. I always thought the Knights of Ebonach were more... ahem. Nevermind.

    A: Don't presume to critique me, girl (Elaine -1)

        Elaine (worried): No, of course not! I didn't mean to imply...

A: Yes, and if you can't help, stop distracting me (Elaine -1, Abelon +1)

    -> Set: no-guidance

    Elaine (worried): Ok. I get it...

A: One knight. Shanti is here for her research (Abelon -1)

    Elaine (content): Oh, she's not one of the Knights of Ebonach.

    A: And as such, dead weight (Shanti -2)
    
        Elaine (worried): And it seems like you want me to be the same...

    A: She's a scholar of Ignea, and a capable mage (Shanti +1, Elaine +1)

        -> Set: elaine-knows-shanti

        Elaine (serious): A mage... Wait. Do you mean Miss Shanti? Miss Shanti teaches at the academy! Sometimes. She introduced my class to Ignea!
        
        Elaine (serious): ...She's out here?

        A: Her Ignaeic research is of far greater service to the Kingdom

        A: Studying Ignea in the field, as it were. With our protection

        Elaine (content): She's really amazing, huh? Wow.
```

## elaine-pester-3

Only triggers if !no-guidance
```
Elaine (content): At least we can see that someone came this way. So we're on the right path.

A: Obviously (Abelon +2)

    Elaine (serious): Yes. Uh, sorry. I won't distract you.

A: How can you tell? (Abelon -2, Elaine +3)

    -> Set: elaine-guidance

    TODO
```

## elaine-talk-pre-clearing

Talk option for while Elaine is pestering you, before you reach the first clearing
```
Elaine (serious): Hmm...
```

## first-clearing

TODO

## elaine-talk-first-clearing

TODO

## kath-talk-first-clearing

TODO

## sample

```
Kath (content): *Huff* Hah, it's over. Poor beasts. Someone should have told them they were picking a fight with the greatest knights in all the Kingdom!

A: The greatest knights?

    Kath (content): What, you disagree?

    A: I suppose not (Kath +1)

        Kath (content): Precisely.

    A: You aren't yet worthy of that title

        Kath (content): Bah! Says the old man to the youngest Knight Captain in the Kingdom's history. And it won't be long before I finally best you in a proper duel, either. Time is on my side, Abelon.

    A: I'm not quite worthy of that title (Kath +1a, Abelon -1)

        Kath (worried): ...You can't really mean that, can you? If there isn't a knight in Ebonach who can match you in a duel, who exactly are you competing with?

        Kath (content): Unless you think the title of 'greatest' demands a winning personality. In which case, yes, you're dead last.

*If !carried-elaine*
A: Kath, the girl

    Kath (serious): Of course.

A: ...

Kath (serious): Now then...

*If carried-elaine*

    Kath (content): That was fine work, Elaine. I'm impressed you kept your nerve, if that was your first proper combat with monsters.

    Elaine (content): I... um...

    A: You have a lot of explaining to do (Abelon +1)

        Kath (serious): Indeed she does, but hold off on the interrogation for a moment, old man. I need to check her wounds. She was in quite a state when you brought her here.

    A: Kath, check her injuries (Kath +1, Elaine +1)

        Kath (content): As if I need you to remind me. She was in quite a state when you brought her here.

*If !carried-elaine*

    Kath (serious): Excuse me, miss? Are you alright?

    A: She's injured (Elaine +1)

    A: Be careful, it might be a trap (Abelon +1)

        Kath (serious): I doubt it. Look at her, old man, she can barely stand. She needs our help. And we need to know what she's doing miles into the valley, whether or not you particularly care for her well-being.

    Elaine (worried): ...Is it over? Are we safe?

    Kath (content): Yes, the monsters are gone. For now.
    
    Elaine (worried): ...Please, help me. I'm lost. If you have food, or medicine, I'll find a way to repay you, I promise...

    Kath (content): Not to worry, I'm trained in healing magic. You're lucky to have happened upon us. Come, sit at our camp. I'll get you some food as well. What's your name?

    Elaine (content): Oh... thank you. Thank you! I knew if I followed the tracks I would find someone, and I did it! I'll be able to go home... I'm Elaine.

    Elaine (content): It's such a relief to see someone, after all this time... Wait. The both of you, don't I know...?
    
    Elaine (worried): Oh. Oh goddess, you're-

    Kath (content): Elaine, is it? Hold still for a moment, Elaine, I'm going to heal some of your wounds. Thankfully none of them appear serious.

Kath (serious): ...Right. 'For simple cuts and bruises, slowly guide a fist of thumb-sized stones over the length of the wound, while channeling power gently into the wrist and reading the listed incantation...

Kath (serious): ...Replace with new stones when half depleted'. Hm, I wonder if I could recite all of the healing scripts from memory.

A: Impressive recollection (Kath +1)

    Kath (content): On the topic of my memory, old man, I haven't forgotten my first battle at the Southwall under your command, when you told the other knights,
    
    Kath (serious): 'Kath ought to make an easy meal for the monsters - he won't notice his head's being chewed off until he realizes he can't see his manuscript'.

    A: And it was true, at the time

        Kath (content): Perhaps, perhaps not. But you won't deny it's serving me well now; even without any scripts handy, a little field healing for Elaine here is child's play.

    A: I said such a thing? (Kath +1a)

        Kath (content): You did, and everyone laughed themselves hoarse over it. I didn't mind that it was at my expense, of course. I suspect I only remember it because it was the first time I heard you make a joke about anything.

A: You learned something at the academy after all.

    Kath (content): Not so! Sitting at a desk never taught me a thing. Protecting the farmers along the Southwall under your command was when it all started to stick.

A: Are you just showing off? (Kath -1)

    Kath (serious): No, I'm trying to recall the particulars of one of a few hundred ignaeic spellcasting methods pulled from twenty different manuscripts. Unless you'd rather I make a mistake and set her on fire?

A: ... (Abelon +1)

*If carried-elaine*

    Elaine (serious): Th-thank you. For taking care of me, and for saving me last night. That wolf would have surely killed me... Fighting with you was the least I could do. Even though I didn't help much...

    Kath (worried): Hold on, what wolf? What exactly happened last night, old man? After I woke you up for the second watch I slept straight through until morning.
    
    Kath (content): Imagine my surprise, waking up to an unconscious, injured girl in camp with us!

*If !carried-elaine*

    Elaine (serious): Th-thank you. For taking care of me, and for saving me last night. That wolf would have surely killed me...

    *If !kath-knows-found-elaine*

        Kath (worried): Hold on, what wolf? Abelon, did something happen last night? After I woke you up for the second watch I slept straight through until morning.

    *If kath-knows-found-elaine*

        Kath (worried): Hold on, what wolf? Abelon, you told me you saw her last night. What exactly happened? After I woke you up for the second watch I slept straight through until morning.

A: I left camp for a clearing to the east (Kath +1a, Abelon -1)

    Kath (worried): What? Abelon, you had the watch! I'm never one to doubt your intuition, but you should have woken me. What could possibly have been so urgent?

    A: A ritual, performed under the moonlight (Abelon -1)

        Kath (worried): For what purpose? And why didn't you tell us?

        A: It granted knowledge of new combat spells

            *If kath-saw-spell*

                Kath (serious): Ah. Then that explains the destructive fire you unleashed upon those poor wolves earlier. You burnt them to a crisp. Useful magic, no doubt.
                
                Kath (worried): But why didn't you tell us you were preparing such a ritual? We might have helped.

            *If !kath-saw-spell*

                Kath (serious): New combat spells, hm? That does sound useful, but why didn't you tell us you were preparing such a ritual? We might have helped.

            A: Secrecy was a requirement (Abelon -1)

                Kath (worried): A component of the ritual specifically required you not to discuss it with anyone? That seems awfully... arbitrary.
                
                Kath (worried): Then again, Shanti was just telling us yesterday about the month in which she waited every day for a bird to land on her head, just to fulfill a ritual's instructions...
                
                Kath (content): It's baffling magic, I don't mind saying. I'll stick to my simple incantations. Hopefully the ritual our party is meant to perform at this supposed monastery isn't so complicated.

            A: I don't know (Abelon -2, Kath +2a, Kath -1)

                -LABEL DONT_KNOW-

                    Kath (worried): You... don't know? Abelon, you aren't making any sense. What's going on here? Are you feeling alright?

                    A: ...

                    A: ...

                    A: ...

                    Kath (worried): I don't like the look you're giving me... Fine, I'll drop it. You've made me party to enough of your secrets and half-truths in the past, and they've always been for good reason.

                    Kath (worried): But as much as I'm not fond of witholding information from our knights or our people, it stings even worse to be the one kept in the dark.
                    
                    Kath (worried): ...Goddess grant that one day you and King Sinclair trust me to the extent you trust each other.

        A: I don't know (Abelon -2, Kath +2a, Kath -1)

            -GOTO DONT_KNOW-
        
        Kath (serious): In any case, I'm to presume on your way to the clearing you happened upon little Elaine here?

        Elaine (serious): Yes, that must be why you found me... I wasn't anywhere near here. At least, I don't think so. I would have seen the light from the fire.

    A: Someone was in danger (Elaine +1)

        -> Set: sensed-elaine

        Kath (serious): But... that clearing isn't even within earshot from here. Did you use some sort of spell of detection to survey the area? You ought to teach it to me, if so.

        Elaine (serious): That must be how you found me. You came to my rescue.

A: I sensed someone nearby

    -> Set: sensed-elaine

    Kath (worried): What? Abelon, you had the watch! I'm never one to doubt your intuition, but you should have woken me. Did you really leave the camp undefended?

    A: Only for a brief moment (Kath +1a)

        Kath (worried): You would have cursed me with all of the air in your lungs had I done something so careless. It's unlike you...

    A: She was in danger, it was urgent (Elaine +1)

        Kath (serious): You were able to ascertain all that just sitting beside our dying campfire in the middle of the night?
        
    Kath (serious): She must have been nearly within sight of us. Or else you used some spell of detection to survey the area? You ought to teach it to me, if so.

    Elaine (worried): Um... I wasn't anywhere near here. At least, I don't think so. I would have seen the light from the fire.

Elaine (worried): It had just gotten dark... I was hungry and tired, I was looking for somewhere to rest. Then I saw... these red eyes, staring at me from the trees... I was so scared...

Elaine (worried): I started running away, and I think it was chasing after me. I was looking behind me, searching for it, and then... I don't remember anything else. I woke up and I was here.

Kath (serious): Perhaps you ran into a tree, or tripped, and the blow knocked you unconscious. That would explain the wounds on your head and face.

*If carried-elaine*

    Elaine (serious): Goddess, I've been an embarassment... Grandad would have my hide. But, the wolf...

*If !carried-elaine*

    Elaine (serious): Goddess, I've been an embarassment... Grandad would have my hide. But, when I woke up I saw a wolf near me, dead. You saved me, didn't you?

*If !sensed-elaine*
A: The wolf was blocking my path, so I killed it

    *If carried-elaine*

        Kath (content): At least you had the good sense to bring her back to camp. Do you remember some months ago, when we were stretched thin out beyond Ebonach's west gate?
        
        Kath (content): You fought bitterly against my carrying home a dying knight. Has your heart softened since then?

        A: I'm not nearly as soft-hearted as you (Kath +1)

            Kath (content): Ha! As it should be.

            -LABEL QUESTION_TIME-

                Kath (serious): Well, now that she's safe with us, I believe some questions are in order.

        A: She's here because we need to question her (Abelon +1, Elaine -1)

            -LABEL TACTICALLY-

                Kath (serious): Thinking tactically, as always.

    *If !carried-elaine*

        Kath (worried): Thank the Goddess she was able to reach our camp safely. I can't fathom why you didn't bring her back, Abelon. She was unconscious and defenseless!

        -LABEL QUESTION_TIME2-

            Kath (serious): ...Sigh. At least she's here now. I expect she's exhausted, but I'm sure you'd agree, Abelon, that some questions are in order.

*If sensed-elaine, !carried-elaine*
A: I killed the wolf before it could attack you (Kath +1a, Elaine +1)

    Kath (worried): And yet you didn't bother to bring her back to our camp, even though she was still unconscious and defenseless.
    
    Kath (worried): Were you ever planning to raise this with our party? Were you expecting her to simply find her way here unassisted?

    -GOTO QUESTION_TIME2-

*If carried-elaine*
A: I killed the wolf and carried you here to safety (Elaine +1, Kath +1a)

    Elaine (serious): Thank you. Again. Thank you...

    Kath (content): Why, your hard heart is beginning to soften after all, old man!
    
    Kath (content): It was only some months ago, when we were stretched thin out beyond Ebonach's west gate, that you fought bitterly against my carrying home a dying knight.
    
    Kath (content): Could it be that my heroism and effortless charisma are rubbing off on you?

    A: Don't look so smug (Kath +1)

    A: ...

    -GOTO QUESTION_TIME-

*If carried-elaine*
A: I killed the wolf and brought you here to question you (Abelon +1, Elaine -1)

    -GOTO TACTICALLY-

Kath (serious): Elaine, you're a citizen of Ebonach, aren't you?

Elaine (serious): Yes.

Kath (serious): Then I take it you already know who we are.

*If carried-elaine*

    Elaine (serious): ...I thought I didn't, when I was just waking up. But you called him Abelon. And I realized that I recognized you, both of you, I just... didn't believe it.
    
    Elaine (serious): That I had been rescued by the two Knight Captains. I've only ever seen either of you from a distance...

*If !carried-elaine*

    Elaine (serious): ...I thought I didn't, when I first saw you. But I've never seen anyone fight so fiercely, and I realized that I recognized you, both of you, I just... didn't believe it.
    
    Elaine (serious): That I had been found by the two Knight Captains. I've only ever seen either of you from a distance...

Elaine (worried): Captain Kath, Sir... I hope that my, um, plain speech hasn't offended you in any way. And thank you, Sir Kath, for healing me. Please forgive me for being a distraction from your, uh, quest. Or whatever.

Kath (content): Ha! I must admit, I don't mind the deferential treatment. If only Lester and Shanti were so enthusiastic... But Elaine, there's no need to fuss over your words-

Elaine (worried): And Sir Abelon, please accept my gratitude. I didn't deserve to be saved by a famous knight. I didn't deserve to be saved at all, I know... I don't... I should have died. I should be dead. For being stupid.

Elaine (worried): But Captain Abelon, Sir, please, uh... I'm sorry...

Elaine (worried): Will you spare my life? I... I just want to go home. I won't go out into the forest again, just please, let me go back home to my grandfather...

A: What? I saved you from that wolf, didn't I? (Kath +1, Elaine +1)
    
    Elaine (worried): Yes, and I'll answer your questions, and uh... Then you'll know that I was out in the forest without permission and it's against the law and I got in your way and, and, 
    
    Elaine (worried): ...grandad said if you get in Sir Abelon's way he'll probably... he'll probably kill you, and I, I... *sob*

    Kath (worried): Sigh... You see, Abelon? This is what you've done to our reputation. This poor girl is convinced you'll kill her in cold blood right after saving her life.

    Kath (serious): Every time His Majesty orders an execution in the name of 'safeguarding the Kingdom', I have to go out into the streets smiling and waving and giving candies to children,
    
    Kath (serious): just to convince our own public that the Knights of Ebonach do more than go around chopping peoples' heads off!

    A: Nobody is forcing you

        Kath (serious): I'm forcing myself. I love this Kingdom, Abelon, and I know you do too, in your own twisted way. I became a knight to protect it.
        
        Kath (serious): But I want more for it than survival. I want its people to be happy. You and King Sinclair don't seem to feel the same way, so it falls to me.

    A: That's absurd, I would never kill someone in Elaine's position (Kath +1a, Kath +1)

        Kath (serious): You would never, except for all of the times you have. Either on His Majesty's orders or your own judgement.
    
    Elaine (worried): I'm sorry. Sir Kath, Sir Abelon, I'm sorry. I was overwhelmed, is all. But both of you... you're very different in person. From how I imagined. Please, let me explain how I ended up here.

A: Stop blubbering and tell us why you're here (Abelon +1, Kath -1, Elaine -4)

    Elaine (worried): R-right. Right.

Elaine (worried): My house is near the north gate of Ebonach. I... Sometimes I go into the valley with my bow and arrows. My grandad made them for me.

Elaine (worried): Meat is so expensive at the market, but there are rabbits just outside the walls, and my grandad... I mean, I know how to hunt and trap them.

Kath (serious): ...

Elaine (serious): Yesterday was my little brother Charim's birthday, and I wanted to make him something special for dinner. So I went out...

Kath (serious): Sorry to interrupt, but how exactly are you leaving the city? Two of my men guard the north gate.

Elaine (worried): One of the knights there is... Um... We're friends. I go out at night, and he told me how to slip through without anyone noticing.

Kath (serious): I'll have to have more than a few words with them...

Elaine (serious): I went out, and I was checking my traps, and I saw a deer. I hardly ever see them anymore, they're so rare...

Elaine (serious): I thought it would be so amazing if I could kill it, but I missed my first shot, and it ran away. When I went after it, I got lost.

Kath (serious): Simply getting lost isn't enough to end up an entire two days' journey out from Ebonach.

Elaine (serious): Well, I couldn't retrace my steps, but I did find a path. And I saw that people had been walking on it recently. My gran... Uh, I know how to track animals.

Elaine (serious): I assumed the direction they were headed was back towards the city, since the valley is so dangerous...

Kath (worried): Ah. But in fact, those were our footsteps, headed directly into the heart of the forest. I take it you didn't have a compass to orient yourself. And the trees obscure the sun at most hours... Bad luck.

Elaine (worried): Eventually I realized I was getting further from town, but I was so hungry, and scared... it had already been a day, I... I had to sleep in a tree trunk in the dark...

Elaine (worried): I thought if I could just catch up to the people walking on the path they could help me.

A: It's remarkable you made it this far (Elaine +1)

    Kath (content): I have to agree.

A: You've broken several laws (Abelon +1)

    Elaine (worried): I... I know...

    Kath (serious): True enough. But we aren't exactly in a position to bring her to justice, whatever the worth in doing so. More than her flagrant disrespect for the law, I'm interested in her genuine talents.

A: What a ridiculous story (Abelon +1, Elaine -1)

    Elaine (serious): It's true! I'm not lying!

    Kath (serious): It does stretch credulity, Abelon, but I'm inclined to believe her. Noticeable omissions regarding her grandfather aside...
    
    Elaine (worried): Please, don't do anything to him! Hunting in the valley was allowed when he was young, I know it was! He was just trying to keep me entertained, I'm sure... What I did was my own fault.

    Kath (content): Rest easy. Personally, I've no interest in lecturing a man three times my age on the letter of the law. And I'll keep Abelon off his back. I'm more curious about you, and your genuine talents.

Kath (serious): Elaine, to make it here, for two days you've steered clear of monsters, tracked both humans and animals, and kept yourself fed.

Kath (serious): What's more, you're proficient with a bow. And you aren't even a trained knight. How old are you?

Elaine (serious): Seventeen.

Kath (serious): Hm...

A: What are you plotting, Kath?

A: She's not coming with us (Elaine -1, Kath -1)

    -> Set: not-coming-with-us

    Kath (worried): Come on now, you haven't even heard my proposal yet!

Kath (serious): She's clearly capable. Enough that she wouldn't slow us down as a traveling companion. And she would be safer staying with us than trekking back to the city alone along the Lefally road.

Kath (serious): I think we should bring her onto our expedition, find the monastery, and return home as a group after we finish with the ritual. That is, if she doesn't object.

Elaine (worried): That's... Um...

A: Out of the question, she's a liability (Elaine -3, Abelon +1, Kath -1)

    -> Set: out-of-the-question

A: We don't have enough rations or ignea (Elaine -1)

A: She'd be no safer with us (Kath +1a)

*If !not-coming-with-us, #Elaine > -2*
A: It merits discussion (Elaine +1, Abelon -1, Kath +1a)

    -> Set: merits-discussion

Elaine (worried): I...

*If #Elaine < 0*

    Elaine (worried): ...I'm sorry... Please, allow me to go back to Ebonach... I can find my way along the path. All I need is some food to take with me, if you can spare it. I want to go home.

    Kath (worried): Truly? Elaine, do you understand how lucky you were just to reach us alive? Packs of wolves hunt all over the forest. And much worse.
    
    Kath (worried): There's a reason it's barred to citizens. You'll be alone for a full two days, or longer if you run into trouble-

    Elaine (worried): Stop! ...I know it's dangerous. And I'm scared, but... Well, I can tell when I'm not wanted.
    
    Elaine (serious): I don't really understand what you're doing in the valley, but if Captain Kath and Captain Abelon are both so far from the city, it must be important.

    Elaine (worried): You already went to the trouble of saving my life. I don't want to cause any more problems, and Sir Abelon... you've made it clear that I would, if I stayed.

    Elaine (worried): Whatever punishment you have for me when you come back to Ebonach, I accept it. Until then, I want to be with my family.

    Kath (worried): Ach... It doesn't sound like I'll be swaying you. But I won't let you go unprepared.

    -LABEL BYE_ELAINE-

        Kath (serious): Let me get you some of our rations. And a compass. Come have a look at this map.

        -> Event: Elaine and Kath move over to the campsite
        
        Kath (serious): We're here, where Shanti's drawn a little campfire. We've gone off the main Lefally road, but if you walk southeast, you'll find a number of fallen trees. You should see the path we cut through the brush.

        Kath (serious): If you follow that path southwest, you'll reach the Lefally road by afternoon. It's a straight shot south on that road to the north gate of Ebonach.
        
        Kath (content): Shout down the guards, they'll let you in. After all, it sounds like you have a rather close friend among them.

        Elaine (worried): ...

        Kath (content): ...Just a little joke! Anyway, keep your eyes open for wolves. They'll stalk you before going in for the attack. But if you notice them first and get yourself up a tall tree, they won't be able to reach.

        Elaine (serious): ...Ok. What about other monsters?

        Kath (worried): ...Ah.

        Kath (serious): Pray you don't run into any.

        Elaine (worried): ...

        Kath (serious): I wish I had better advice for you. If it's any consolation, our band of four has seen nothing but wolves so far. There aren't many... other monsters this close to the Lefally road. Try not to dwell on it.

        Kath (serious): Here, put these in your pack. Best that you start moving now, while it's still early.
        
        Elaine (worried): ...Right. I think I have everything I need.
        
        Kath (content): In a couple of days, you'll be home safe and sound.

        A: Best of luck (Kath +1)

        A: Get on with it (Abelon +1, Kath -1)

        Elaine (worried): Sir Kath... Thank you. Goodbye.

        -> Event: Elaine leaves to the east

        Kath (worried): ...

        Kath (serious): ...Time for us to be moving on as well.

*If #Elaine > -1, #Elaine < 6*

    Elaine (worried): ...I'm just not sure. Fighting more monsters and getting further from home, or going back alone... Both sound terrifying.
    
    Elaine (serious): I'm already in debt to both of you, so I don't think it's my place to decide. I'll do whatever you believe is best.

    Kath (serious): Personally, I think she'd be safe with us. And she can fight, with that bow of hers. Abelon?

    *If out-of-the-question*
    A: It isn't worth the risk, she goes home

        -LABEL ELAINE_GOES_HOME-

            Kath (worried): ...I see. I can't say I see your point of view, but if Elaine isn't sure, I'll defer to your judgement. Outside the city, following your orders has saved me more than once, whether or not I agree with them.

            Kath (serious): But Elaine, I won't let you go unprepared.

            -GOTO BYE_ELAINE-

    A: How would we feed her?

        Kath (serious): Well, Elaine, how did you feed yourself in the valley? You can't have made it this far on just a full stomach.

        Elaine (serious): Berries, mostly. A lot of them grow around here. I didn't eat very much, to be honest...
        
        Elaine (serious): If I wasn't trying so hard to catch up with you, I would have shot a rabbit and made a fire to cook it. I've done that a few times before.

        Kath (content): Sounds like you're plenty capable of earning your weight in rations, then. So to speak. So long as there's a spare moment to forage...

        -LABEL ELAINE_DECIDE-

            A: It isn't worth the risk, she goes home (Kath -1, Abelon +1)

                -GOTO ELAINE_GOES_HOME-

            A: We'll take the risk, she comes with us (Elaine +1, Abelon -1)

                -LABEL WELCOME_ELAINE-

                    -> Set: elaine-stays

                    Kath (content): It's decided. Elaine, you'll join us until we've achieved our goals in the valley and can go home.

                    Elaine (serious): Sir Kath, Sir Abelon, you've already done so much for me... I won't let you down.

                    Elaine (worried): Ah... So, what are those goals? Why are you both in the Red Mountain Valley? I didn't think the Knights of Ebonach ever went north anymore.
                    
                    Elaine (serious): And you're the Knight Captains... Don't you usually have a lot of knights with you to order around?

                    Kath (worried): Did you not see the news of His Majesty's announcement? It was circulated all over the city, from what I understand.

                    Elaine (worried): My grandad, um... He doesn't... I mean, he told me not to listen to any... Uh...

                    Kath (serious): He told you that King Sinclair has lost his mind, and that you shouldn't trust the palace or the Knights of Ebonach?

                    Elaine (worried): ...Please, don't-

                    Kath (content): It's perfectly alright. You have no idea, Elaine, how often Abelon and I hear similar remarks. We tell our knights to ignore them. Ach, I tell mine that, anyway.

                    Elaine (worried): I'm sorry...

                    Kath (content): Since you haven't heard, it will take some time to explain. But we ought to be seeking out our other two traveling companions, my knight and good friend Lester, and our resident ignaeic scholar Shanti.

                    Kath (content): They went north ahead of us towards our destination. I'll fill you in while we retrace their steps. Abelon, we'll leave on your command.

    A: How would we keep her safe? (Elaine +1)

        *If carried-elaine*

            Kath (serious): The same way we just did, naturally. By fighting cautiously and giving her strict orders. Two things you're rather well known for, I might add.

        Kath (content): It's true we're ill-informed of the dangers that lie deeper in the valley. But we're only a party of the three strongest knights in Ebonach, and perhaps its most skilled mage.
        
        Kath (content): Do you really doubt our ability to keep one girl alive?

        Elaine (serious): ...Wow.

        -GOTO ELAINE_DECIDE-

    A: How would she keep up with us?

        *If carried-elaine*

            Kath (content): You saw her fight just now. She has a knack for it, and the survival skills to match. Even if she's untrained, I don't think she'll hamper our progress. 
            
            Kath (serious): How about it, Elaine? At our next run-in with monsters, could you pull that off again?

            Elaine (content): With you protecting me, Sir Kath, I could. I was scared at first, but... The wolves are easy targets. Easier than rabbits, anyway.

        *If !carried-elaine*

            Kath (serious): Well, she did catch up to us on the road. So her stamina and survival skills aren't in question, at least. But she'd have to hold her own in a proper fight against monsters.
            
            Kath (serious): What do you think, Elaine? You have a bow and arrows. Imagine you were fighting with us just now. Could you have kept out of reach of the wolves' fangs and taken a few shots at them?

            Elaine (worried): ...Oh Goddess. If... If a wolf ran for me, I don't know what I would do. But... they're much bigger than rabbits. If you distracted them, Sir Kath, I'm sure I could hit them.

            A: Imagination isn't enough, real combat is different (Abelon +1)

            A: ...

                Kath (serious): Whether you'd keep your nerve in a real battle remains to be seen. Many knights don't.

            Elaine (serious): ...I know what I must look like to you, Sir Kath, Sir Abelon. I've been scared, and confused, and desperate.
            
            Elaine (serious): But I can handle myself. Except for your knights, I've been in the valley more than anyone. I'll fight, if you need me to.

        -GOTO ELAINE_DECIDE-

    *If merits-discussion*
    A: We'll take the risk, she comes with us

        -GOTO WELCOME_ELAINE-

*If #Elaine > 5*

    Elaine (serious): I want to join you. The thought of going back to the city alone is... It's too much. I feel safe here with you, Sir Kath and Sir Abelon. You've looked out for me, and been considerate towards me.
    
    Elaine (serious): ...You're different from how I thought Knights of Ebonach would be.

    *If carried-elaine*

        Elaine (content): And I won't slow you down! I can fight, you saw me fight! And, and... I'll hunt for food for us! So that there's still enough for everyone! Please, give me a chance.

    *If !carried-elaine*

        Elaine (content): And I won't slow you down! I can fight, I'm good with a bow, I promise! And, and... I'll hunt for food for us! So that there's still enough for everyone! Please, give me a chance.

    Kath (content): Well, now! Not just capable, but motivated! I dare say, far from a liability, she'd make a useful ally. What do you make of it, Abelon?

    A: I helped her. I didn't agree to have her tag along (Elaine -1)

        Kath (serious): Maybe so, but what concerns have you raised that she doesn't have an answer for?

        A: Slowing down our progress

            Elaine (serious): If I make trouble for your mission, or quest, or whatever it is, you can leave me behind. But first, let me prove myself. When I shoot my bow, I never miss. Er, except for that deer I was chasing...

        A: Our food supply

            Elaine (serious): On my way here, I had to find food for two whole days. I know which plants are edible, and I know how to catch and cook rabbits. So long as there's a spare moment to forage, I can feed myself.

        A: Our ignea supply

            Elaine (worried): Erm... I've never used magic outside of the academy. You don't need to share any spellstone with me.

        A: Her own safety (Elaine +1)

            Kath (content): It's true we're ill-informed of the dangers that lie deeper in the valley. But we're only a party of the three strongest knights in Ebonach, and perhaps its most skilled mage.
            
            Kath (content): Do you really doubt our ability to keep one girl alive?

            Elaine (serious): Wow...

        Kath (serious): I understand your hesitation, Abelon, but I think Elaine has made enough of a case for herself.
        
        Kath (serious): I'm loathe to pull rank, but I'm a Knight Captain, same as you, and only His Majesty can overrule me. You might be leader of the expedition, but I'm making this call.

        -GOTO WELCOME_ELAINE-

    A: ...Fine (Abelon -1)

        -GOTO WELCOME_ELAINE-

    *If !out-of-the-question*
    A: I'm convinced (Elaine +1, Kath +1, Abelon -1)

        -GOTO WELCOME_ELAINE-
```