Every character has three skill "paths" to choose from, named by nouns
(e.g. Abelon has Veteran, Demon, and Executioner), with an associated icon and
color.

A skill in path X grants a point in path X, but may require a threshold of
points from paths X Y or Z.

Everyone will be about level 20 by the end of the game, and each level grants a
skill (or rarely, a passive. A character might have 0-3 passives by the end).

Characters are recruited at some level appropriate to where they arrive in the
game, and get some number of starting skills and corresponding points.
Essentially, they already have some skills "unlocked". However, the number of
skills they start with may not be equal to their starting level â€“ every
character, at recruitment, only has 6-7 spells so as not to overwhelm the
player, even if they start at a high level. Abelon will have 18-20 skills at
the end of the game, while other characters will have fewer (Gaheris might have
only 7-8).

The skill requirements should be designed such that a) there are enough choices
with each level up (3 or 4 seems like a good number), b) a character will
possess about half of their total unlockable skills by the end of the game,
and c) by the end of the game, a character will still not even meet the
requirements for a good number of skills (i.e. at least some skills have
specific high requirements and need heavy investment).

Skills with higher requirements should generally cost more ignea, but should be
much more (situationally!) powerful, and indicate an extreme specialization in
the particular path (i.e. the "top" of Kath's Defender tree should have an
expensive Forbearance-esque skill, and the "top" of Abelon's Executioner tree
could have an instant death ability that costs Abelon some stats or health).
Skills with high cross-path requirements should also be incredibly powerful,
and feel very unique.

Low requirement skills should be low-cost, low-cooldown, bread and butter
abilities like basic attacks, set-ups, and movement abilities that open lots of
strategic options without themselves doing much.

No skill should ever be a direct upgrade of another skill. On level up, there
should never be an obvious choice - every skill has situational uses and
tradeoffs.
